Branching Strategies:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiBXi2JIB_M&list=RDLVBg8tiOLZw4A&index=8
    Trunk Based Strategy
    Feature Branching
    Forking (Used for Open source Software)
    Release Branching Strategy
    Git flow Strategy
    Environment Branching Strategy.


    Trunk based Strategy: It is a Single branch Development Where  there will be main branch, 
                            Which is also called as trunk.
            And this is the branch where all the Developers pull and push the code.  
            It is a Version controlled Management Practise.
            Here Developers Creates the Feature branches And Develop on these Branches and 
            once Working code is ready They merge that code on to trunks or master. 
            This is Called as trunk based Development.
                For Example: lets say there is software team of Developers, 
                                Each Developer is Responsible for implementing a Feature.
                                Each developer creates a feature branch, and starts developing that feature, 
                                    once it is ready, He merges the feature to the trunk or the master. 
                                When the developer frequently merges the code to the master,
                                So that we can get early feedbacks.                
            Trunk Based development is a required practise for continuous integration
            CI = Trunk Based development + Fast Automated test cases.
            Benefits:
                Short lived branches
                Faster Feedbacks
                Avoid Huge merge Conflicts

    Git Feature branch model:
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j7YDbrS9I48&t=57s
    Feature-based development breaks up branches based on the needs of the project.
    Breaking up developmemt by feature can helps teams go faster.
    Easily tested in isolation and introduced back to the project for integration

    Pros:
    Easily Manage Large scale projects.
    Thosuands of developers can work on specific feature.
    Code can be easily tested and introduced to code base.

    Cons:
    Difficult to manage thousands of branches.
    Requires lot of co-ordination to work.
    Team needs senior Developer or manager to cope up managing branches and merges.

    THere is a git with master branch.

    I wanted to add a button ser-34-Addbutton. that is the task. and assigned to siva.
    Then sive created a branch called ser-34-addbutton, and made couple of commits to reach his mile stone.
    After when he was happy with the code he made a pull request+ code review+ demo.
    Lets say I am the Approver and i reviewed the code and Asked for the demo with siva 
    and satisfied with the code.
    After The satisfaction I merged the code with the master Branch.
    This is all About one developer and one reviewer.
    Now Luke is tasked to "more blue". He created his own branch and quickly reached his milestone.
    He Made a pull request and that is Approved and merged to master branch.
    Now siva is taking a bit longer and he was not able to commit as he is out of sync with master. 
    Here Git helps with pulling the latest code from master branch and after his mile stone he raised a pull request and merged to master branch.
    Benefits:
        Stable master branch with working code.

Forking Branch Strategy:
        Fork is a copy of an Existing Branches. Fork is independent from original repository.
        If the original repository gets deleted then frok remains.
        When you fork a repository, you get the repository and all the branches.
        Forking is a type of cloning a repository at some point and modify it from there.

Release branching Strategy:
Git flow branching Strategy:
GitFlow
Considered to be a bit complicated and advanced for many of today’s projects, 
GitFlow enables parallel development where developers can work separately from the master branch on features 
where a feature branch is created from the master branch.

Afterwards, when changes are complete, the developer merges these changes back to the master branch for release.

This branching strategy consists of the following branches:

Master 
Develop
Feature- to develop new features that branches off the develop branch 
Release- help prepare a new production release; usually branched from the develop branch 
            and must be merged back to both develop and master
Hotfix- also helps prepare for a release but unlike release branches, 
hotfix branches arise from a bug that has been discovered and must be resolved; 
it enables developers to keep working on their own changes on the develop branch while the bug is being fixed.
The main and develop branches are considered to be the main branches, 
with an infinite lifetime, while the rest are supporting branches that are meant to 
aid parallel development among developers, usually short-lived.
https://www.flagship.io/wp-content/uploads/gitflow-branching-strategy.png

Environment Branching Strategy:
