
what is git merge?
git merge is used to combine two branches. 
suppose lets say i have 2 branches dev and test. I have commited 2commits to dev and 3 commits to test and 
after test i have one more commit added to dev branch now i wanted to merge dev with test. 
to do so get into dev branch and by git chechout dev and do git merge test. 
now both the branches are merged in linear fashion. and merge will be the latest commit. 

What is a git rebase?
git rebase is used to rearrange the commit history of branches. 
lets say i have 2 branches brancha and branchb with 2 commits made in brancha and 3 commits in branchb and 
one more latest commit in brancha total of 6 commits. and now i want to make branchb branch commits as the 
lastest commits for that i go to branchb and rebase branch a. to make these commits as latest commits 
go to branch a and merge branch b.

How do you rearrange the commit order?
git rebase -i HEAD~4, where it opens an editor and in that we reaarange commits in what ever order we require.

How do you merge commits?
merging commits  means removing the commits. a commits are meaningful milestones achieved by the developer. 
if a developer thinks that the particular commit is not worthy and want to delete it, 
then use git rebase -i Head~10 and it opens editor and in that 
you can replace pick with squash so that it gets deleted.

what is git cherry-pick?
git cherry-pick is used to add selective commits of one branch to another. 
lets say i have 2 commits a and b in abracnch and 3 commits c d f  in branch b. 
now i want to add c and f to branch a. 
to do so get the commitids of c and f and execute commans git cherry-pick <commitidofc> <coomitidoff>

What is git stash?
it gets applied on staged files. To leave the unfinished work and wanted to hide, 
so that git cannot get access to it we use git stash -u, to list staged files (git stash list),
to get back the staged files (git stash pop)
to get the older statsh out git stash pop stash@stash number

What is git ammend?
when ever a developer changes a minor changes to a file and instead of commiting and just want to ammend it by 
executing git commit --ammend -m"b".

How do you go back to previous versions of code git?
git reset --hard <commitid>

What is the difference between git pull and git fetch?
Git fetch is the command which tells the local repo that there are changes available in the remote repository,
without making the changes in the working directory where as 
on the other hand git pull command executes by making changes in the working dirctory from the remote repository.

What is git revert?
Its like undo, lets say we have done 3 commits and i wanted to revert latest commit .
this can be achieved by "git revert HEAD"
if i want to undo changes in second commit - git revert <second commit id>

git end to end configuration?
create a directory > 
git init 
git config --global user.name <user.name>
git config --global user.email <user.email>
create file
git status to see untracked file
git add <nameoffile> to move to staging area
git commit -m"message" to commit the files
git remote add <remote-name> <remote-repo-url> to add a remote repository
git push -u <remote-name> <local branch name>
git remote -v to see the url configured
cat .git/config to see the local-repo cofiguration details
cat .gitconfig to see the global configurations

