Maven 
maven is a project management and dependency management tool.
maven lifecycle consists of 
    validate
    complie
    test
    package
    integration test
    verify
    install 
    deploy.

Maven Commands

mvn clean:
    This command cleans the maven project by deleting the target directory

mvn compile
    This command is used to compile java classes of maven project.

mvn compiler:compile
    This command compiles the java source classes of maven project.

mvn compiler:testCompile
    This command compiles the java test classes of maven project

mvn package
    This command builds the maven project into jar, war files

mvn install
    This command builds the maven project and installs the projects files to local repository

mvn deploy
    This command used to deploy the artifact to the remote repository. 
    the remote repo should be properly configured with pom.xml file.
    for the server entry authentication use settings.xml file

mvn validate
    This command is used to validate maven project so that all necessary info is available.

mvn dependency:tree
    This command is used to generate the tree of dependencies required for a maven project.

mvn dependency:analyze
    This command is used to analyze unused declared dependencies and used undeclared dependencies. 
    it is used in reducing the build size by identifying unused dependencies and remove it from the pom.xml file

mvn archetype:generate
    maven archetypes are mavenproject templating tool kit. 
    this can be used to generate skeleton of maven project of different types 
    such as webapplications, jar, maven site execute

mvn site:site
    This command generates a site to the project. 
    we will notice a site directory in target dirctory after executing this command.
    There will be multiple html file available with in the site directory and provides info related to this project

mvn test
    This command used to run test cases of the project  using maven-surefire-plugin.

mvn verify
    This command builds the project and runs the test cases and runs the checks on 
    integration test to ensure quality criteria is met.

mvn -help
    This command helps with maven usage

mvn -f maven-example-jar/pom.xml package
    This command is useful when we are buiding a project from different location
    and providing the pom.xml file location to build the project. 
    it is useful when you want to run maven project from ascript.

mvn -o package
    This command is used to build a project offline. It is useful when we have all the dependencies 
    downloaded in local repository and we dont want maven to look for jars in the remote repo.

mvn -q package
    This command used to run maven in quiet mode. it only displays testcases results and errors.

mvn -X package
    This command prints the maven version and runs the build in debug mode. 
    you will see a lot of debug mode in the console.

mvn -v
    prints maven version

mvn -V package
    this command prints maven version and continue with the build

mvn -DskipTests package
    skiptest is the property to skip the unit test cases from build life cycle.

mvn -T 4 package
     This command tells maven to run parallel builds using specified thread count.
     Helpful for mutiple module project.

How to install maven on linux?
    Mave requires jdk to execute
    install jdk binaries and extract it.
    setup JAVA_HOME and PATH environment variables
    check java -version
    download maven binaries and extract them 
    setup M2_HOME and PATH enviroment variables
    verfy maven version by exec command mvn -v 

Using maven tool how do you deploy an application?
    mvn deploy
    This command used to deploy the artifact to the remote repository. 
    the remote repo should be properly configured with pom.xml file.
    for the server entry authentication use settings.xml file