What is a Web Application?(https://www.claysys.com/blog/types-of-web-applications/)
A web application is an Application program that is stored on a remote server and delivered over the internet
through a browser interface.
They can be used by anyone from organisation to an individual.

How Web applications work:?

They don't need to be downloaded, but can be accessed through a network.
Users can Access Webapplications through web browser such as mozilla firefox, google chrome, safari etc.
For webapp to operate, it needs,
        webserver: 
        Manage the request from a client.
        Examples:
                Apache Http server
                nginx... etc.,
        
        Application server:
        Completes the Requested task,
        Program thet resides on the server side.
        Server programmer providing Business logic behind any application
        Examples:
                Tomcat
                jBoss
                Weblogic
                Websphere etc

        Database:
        Used to store any needed information.
        Examples:
                Microsoft SQL
                Mysql
                mongodb
                SQLite
                Postgresql
                MariaDb.

Basically Web-Based-Applications need 3-TIER Architecture
Tier-1 : GUI that resides At client end, usually a thin client (Eg browser)
Tier-2: This is the middle Tier, Which consists of Application server (eg tomcat)
Tier-3: This is Backend Servers(eg: Database servers)

8 types of web applications.

1) Static web application
2) Dynamic Web Application
3) E-Commerce Web application.
4) Single page Webapplication(SPA)
5) Portal Webapplication
6) Content Management System webapplication(CMS)
7) Animated Web applications
8) Rich internet Webapplications(RIA)

Static Web Application: 
        This is built using Html, css and some Java scripts  to exhibit significant content and information.
        It includes gifs, videos etc. modifying static websites are not easy as it requires dowloading, modifying 
        and returning Html code. This application is suited for software development companies and 
        professional webmasters
        Examples:
                resume websites, portfolio websites, brochure websites, one-off landing pages

Dynamic web application:
        Delivers the live data based on the request of users. 
        These apps have technical sophistication than static websites.
        These webapplications use databases to store all the public and private Data displayed on the website.
        They have Admin panel to control front-end and backend portions.
        These Administrators can change or modify the contant and can include interactive components on webapps.
        These dynamic webapps are built on various programming languages like PHP or ASP.NET
        Examples:
                 Youtube, google, Facebook, twitter, e-commerce websites  etc....

E-Commerce Web Application:
        An app that promotes products and services directly to your potential customers, 
        you can call it as E-Commerce webapplication.
        Basic features of E-commerce webapp:
            Addition of new products
            Removal of outdated and old products.
            Managing payments
            Facilitating electronic payments
            A user friendly interface.
        An effective management panel is important to carryout the above tasks.
        Professional website Developers are required to make the apps user friendly.
        Examples:
                Flipkart, Amazon, Ajio and lots more.......

Single page web-application(SPA):
        This is a type of Dynamic Webapplication. These are simple and Faster
        This Doesnt require browser reloads, functions as a single unit of webapplication.
        These are Fast and dynamic as they implement all business and technological strategies in the client side browser.
        since communication takes place at asynchronous navigation, the process of dealing with user request and response is faster.
        Examples:
                netflix, twitter, gmail etc.....

Portal Web Application:
        It is Single Access point where particular type of user's important data is Accessed.
        THses are the best options for the organisations and businesses that prefer to build customised interfaces 
        to suit the needs of their target Audience.
        Only Registered users are allowed and their Activities are monitored by the service provider, once they login
        Examples:
                Vendor portals
                Patient portals
                intranet
                government portals
                Student and Faculty portals
                Banking and insurance portals

Content Management system web portals:
        Content Management system(CMS) is a website Application,
        Where owner can modify the content without the help from technical team.
        The Admin panel can modify the content without the knowledge of any programming language
        Some of the Content management web applications are:
                1) Wordpress: 
                Most widely used platform by major enterprise owners who changed their business online
                Features of wordpress:
                    Themes
                    plugins
                    tutorials... and lots more to make your website Attractive and distinctive.
                Doest require Technical Assistance from Outside.

                2) Joomla
                Second most popular choice after wordpress
                it does have good community and Advanced web application

                3) Drupal 
                Open source and free webapplication, so we can create our own website.
                Suggested for building Big community portals.

Animated Webapplications:
            Allows you to display all your content along with Animated effects
            These Application types offer creativity and Design, Which cannot be found in other webapplications
            This Application is not suitable for Web positioning or SEO.
            hint: (Web Positioning: it is a service offered by companies to their customers in order to make their
            website in a natural way, which is called SEO. 
            SEO is Search Engine optimisation -improve your website visibility when customer search for their products or services)
            Examples:
                    Blizzard, waze, marie webber ...etc......

                    
Rich Internet Webapplications:
            These Are primary applications that has Functionality of many Desktop Applications.
            Designed to fix browser restrictions and rely on plugins on the customer side.
            These webapp has been created for:
                More efficient and visually Attractive resources with a more interactive user interface
                Better Understanding than older desktop applications
                Some RIA works offline as well
            Two main issues of RIA's are:
                Risks and Inconvenience they cause.
                If a plugin is outof date then many parts of app or whole app dont work properly.
            Examples:
            AJAX, Adobe flash etc.........

        

