1)  What is Golden ami?
          Overview
          The golden AMI model provides consistent hardening of Amazon EC2 instances in AWS environments.
	              
          Build the golden AMI
          Validate through a manual or automated process
          If approved, either
          Register as active, inspect regularly, and check compliance, or
          Distribute, consume, and decommission when obsolete
          If rejected, decommission.
          

          Prerequisites
          Tenable.io must be set up and configured before deploying the golden AMI pipeline. Please refer to the README included with the solution code for details on setting up the Tenable application.
          You must have an AWS account with administrator privileges. Please refer to the AWS document to create an AWS account with an administrator.
          Overview of the golden AMI creation process with Tenable
          An AWS Systems Manager Document defines the automation steps for creating an initial golden AMI. You can invoke the process in three different ways: an Amazon CloudWatch scheduled event, using a Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipeline, or manually through AWS Systems Manager. Refer to the following diagram.



          The automation steps for this process fall into three broad categories:

          Creating a candidate AMI
          An Amazon EC2 instance is launched using a base AMI specified as a parameter.
          Pre-update scripts, patches, and post-update scripts are run on the Amazon EC2 instance.
          An AMI is created from the Amazon EC2 instance, which becomes the golden AMI candidate. 
          Refer to the following diagram to see the outline of this step.

          Perform a vulnerability assessment on the candidate AMI using Tenable
          Tags are applied to the candidate AMI to denote it as the candidate AMI.
          An Amazon EC2 instance is launched from the candidate AMI.
          A Tenable vulnerability scan is run on the Amazon EC2 instance from the candidate AMI.
          The Tenable assessment report is sent to the golden AMI approver. 
          Refer to the following diagram to see the outline of this step.

          Approval of the new golden AMI
          An SNS notification is sent to the designated golden AMI approver.
          The golden AMI approver reviews the results of the Tenable vulnerability assessment and approves or denies the golden AMI in AWS Systems Manager.
          If the AMI is rejected, a golden AMI is not created. Scripts/patches for the instance can be updated and the process can be run again.
          If the AMI is approved, the candidate AMI ID will be stored in the AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store as the golden AMI ID. Refer to the following diagram to see the outline of this step.


          Detailed information on this process is available in Steps 5 and 6 of the deployment guide.
2)  What is NACl?

     NACL - Network Access control list

          it is a security layer for the vpc-subnets
          This efficiently manages and controls the traffic that moves around the subnets
          its an optional layer, but it adds another security layer to aws services.

     Components of NACL
     Following are the components of Network Access Control List (NACL): 

     Rule number: Every rule is assigned a unique number. 
     The rule’s priority is also based on the number it is assigned. 
     When it matches to a specific request or traffic, this rule is applied to the request, 
     irrespective of whether another high-numbered rule contradicts it or not.  
     Rules are created with specific increments, 
     like the difference between 2 rules is either 1,10, 100 and all the rules created have this same difference.  

     Type: This tells about the type of traffic, like SSH, HTTP, HTTPS.  
     Protocol: Protocol is a set of rules, that is applied to every request, ex: http, https, ICMP, SSH. 
     Portrange: The listening port, which takes in the request from the user, such as HTTP is associated with port 80.  
     Inboundrules: Also known as source. These rules talk about the source from where the request or traffic is coming from,
     and about the destination port/ the port through which the response is sent.  
     Outboundrules: Also known as destination. These rules talk about where the response should be sent and about the destination port.  
     Allow/Deny: Whether the specific traffic has to be allowed or denied.  
     There are two types of NaCl: 

     Customized NACL: It can also be understood as a user-defined NACL,
     and its inherent characteristic is to deny any incoming and outgoing traffic until a rule is added to handle the traffic.  
     Default NACL: This is the opposite of customized NACL, which allows all the traffic to flow in and out of the network. 
     It also comes with a specific rule which is associated with a rule number, and it can’t be modified or deleted. 
     When the request doesn’t match with its associated rule, the access to it is denied. When a rule is added or removed,
     changes are automatically applied to the subnets which are associated with it.  

3) How do you block ip address in different ways?
4) How to recover lost keypair?
5) how many security groups can you create in a vpc?
     2500
6) How many security groups can be attached to an ec2 instance?
     5
7) How to setup a database in aws?
     amazon RDS: it is a managed relational database service managed by aws.
     It has the amazon aurora with mysql and postgresql compatibility, mysql, mariadb, postgresql, oracle and sql server.
     i created mysqldatabase
     Asks for standard create or easy create
     engineoptions - mysql
     select version of mysql
     templates- production, dev/test, freetier
     multi AZ db cluster - creates a db cluster with primary instance and two standby instance where each db instance is placed in different availability zone
                              provides high availability, serves workloads
     multi AZ db instance - creates a db cluster with primary instance and one standby instance where each db instance is placed in different availability zone
                              provides high availability, standby instance doesnt support workloads.
     single db instance - creates single db instance with no stand by instance.

     credential settings- where we provide credentials
     
     instance configurations:
               Standard classes (includes m classes)
          Memory optimized classes (includes r and x classes)
          Burstable classes (includes t classes)
     storage:i01, gp2,gp3
     storage autoscaling with a threshold
     network connectivity with vpc and subnets
     database authentication
     password authentication
     password and iam database authentication
     retention period
     backup window
     log exports
     deletion protection
     under actions we can see  
               stop temporaryly
               reboot
               delete
               setup ec2 connection
               create read replica
               create aurora read replica
               promote
               convert to multiaz deployment
               take snapshot
               restore to point in time
               migrate snapshot

How do you attach RDS to ec2?
prerequisites:
install mariadb or mysql on server
start and enable them 
check for status
to eshtablish connection:
getthese parameters
userid
password
endpoint
port
$ mysql -h <endpoint> -P<port> -u <user> -p<Password>

8) What is a loadbalancer and round robin method? 
     Load balancing refers to efficiently distributing incoming network traffic across a group of backend servers.
     Round robin method: A simple method for load balancing servers.
                         multiple identical servers are configured with same services, same domain name but with unique ip for server
                         A Dns server has the list of all server ip that are associated with the same domain name. 
                         when the request for the ip address associated with internet domain name are received, 
                         the addresses are returned in a rotating sequential manner.
9) What is target group and listeners in loadbalancer?
     Target group can be a set of ec2 instances, ipaddress, lambda function or application load balancer
      to where the traffic is routed to with protocol of http or https types with ports to be opened to internet.
      A listener is process that checks for connection requests.
      It is configured with a protocol and a port for front-end (client to load balancer) connections, 
      and a protocol and a port for back-end (load balancer to back-end instance) connections. 
10) what is s3 life cycle?
          s3 has different storage classes. they are
                              s3 standard general purpose
                                   • 99.99% Availability
                                   • Used for frequently accessed data
                                   • Low latency and high throughput
                                   • Sustain 2 concurrent facility failures
                                   • Use Cases: Big Data analytics, mobile & gaming applications, content
                                   distribution…
                              s3 standard infrequent access:
                                   • 99.9% Availability
                                   • Use cases: Disaster Recovery, backups
                                   For data that is less frequently accessed, but requires rapid access when needed
                                   Lower cost than S3 Standard
                              s3 one-zone infrequent access
                              s3 glacier instant retrival
                              s3 glacier flexible retrival
                              s3 glacier deep archive
                              s3 intelligent tiering.
          we can trasition the objects between storage classes.
          if there is a object that infrequently accessed then it is transferred to standard IA.
          for archiving you need glacier or deep archive.
          these objects can be automated with lifecycle rules.
          s3> management> lifecycle>addlifecycle rule>rule name,rule scope,> storage class transition , current versionor previous version>expiration> summary
11) what is vpc transit gateway?
     

12) I have a file in s3 and i want to put it in dynamo db using lambda. how can i do that?
13) How many elastic ip can an account have?
     an account can have 5 elastic ips and we ask aws to increase that.

14) 